content/pages/about.md, before:

Title: CoDaS-HEP Overview
date: 2017-03-21 07:51
slug: about.html
Authors: Peter Elmer
Summary: Computational and Data Science for High Energy Physics
Template: page

  The school on Computational and Data Science for High Energy Physics 
(CoDaS-HEP) was created to fill a void in the training of graduate students
and postdocs working in HEP. Training young researchers in the latest 
computational tools and techniques is essential to their future careers in 
both research and industry. To be successful today’s grad students require a 
mix of particle physics domain knowledge and advanced software skills. 
Relevant computing topics are however often missing from traditional physics 
coursework and, as young researchers begin their active research careers, 
they discover the need for these skills, but are no longer in a position to 
follow such courses.

  The school was intially developed as part of the NSF-funded [Parallel Kalman 
Filter Tracking project](http://trackreco.github.io), in partnership
with the [Princeton Institute for Computational Science and Engineering (PICSciE)](https://researchcomputing.princeton.edu). Building on the success of the
first iterations of the school, additional collaborations and funding sources
have been added (see list below).

  A dedicated compute platform (the CoDaS-HEP Platform) is also being 
developed by the [Enrico Fermi Institute](https://efi.uchicago.edu) at the 
University of Chicago to support the exercises portion of these training 
activities.

### Collaborating Research Projects

  * [The DIANA/HEP project](http://diana-hep.org/)

  * [The FIRST-HEP project](http://first-hep.org/)

  * [The Parallel Kalman Filter Tracking project](http://trackreco.github.io)

  * [SLATE: Services Layer at the Edge](http://slateci.io/)

  * [Pacific Research Platform (PRP)](http://pacificresearchplatform.org/)

  * [CHASE-CI](https://nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1730158)

  * [VC3](https://www.virtualclusters.org)

  * [GitHub (CoDaS-HEP platform portal software)](https://github.com/ssl-hep/mlfront)

### Scientific Advisory Committee

  * [Peter Elmer](http://www.princeton.edu/physics/people/display_person.xml?netid=gelmer&display=Research%20Staff) (Chair) - Princeton University, Department of Physics

  * [Kyle Cranmer](http://theoryandpractice.org) - New York University, Department of Physics & Center for Data Science

  * [Oliver Gutsche](http://home.fnal.gov/~gutsche) - Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory

  * [Sudhir Malik](http://charma.uprm.edu/~malik/) - University of Puerto Rico - Mayaguez

  * [Avi Yagil](http://physics.ucsd.edu/fac_staff/fac_profile/faculty_description.php?person_id=688) - University of California, San Diego, Department of Physics

  * [Peter Wittich](http://physics.cornell.edu/peter-wittich) - Cornell University, Department of Physics

Commit message:

Note that CoDaS-HEP will be supported through FIRST-HEP and IRIS-HEP in the coming years.

content/pages/about.md, after:

Title: CoDaS-HEP Overview
date: 2017-03-21 07:51
slug: about.html
Authors: Peter Elmer
Summary: Computational and Data Science for High Energy Physics
Template: page

  The school on Computational and Data Science for High Energy Physics 
(CoDaS-HEP) was created to fill a void in the training of graduate students
and postdocs working in HEP. Training young researchers in the latest 
computational tools and techniques is essential to their future careers in 
both research and industry. To be successful today’s grad students require a 
mix of particle physics domain knowledge and advanced software skills. 
Relevant computing topics are however often missing from traditional physics 
coursework and, as young researchers begin their active research careers, 
they discover the need for these skills, but are no longer in a position to 
follow such courses.

  The school was intially developed as part of the NSF-funded [Parallel Kalman 
Filter Tracking project](http://trackreco.github.io), in partnership
with the [Princeton Institute for Computational Science and Engineering (PICSciE)](https://researchcomputing.princeton.edu). Building on the success of the
first iterations of the school, direct support will continue in the coming years
through two other NSF-funded projects: [FIRST-HEP](http://first-hep.org)
and [IRIS-HEP](http://iris-hep.org). Additional collaborations 
have also been added (see list below).

  A dedicated compute platform (the CoDaS-HEP Platform) is also being 
developed by the [Enrico Fermi Institute](https://efi.uchicago.edu) at the 
University of Chicago to support the exercises portion of these training 
activities.

### Collaborating Research Projects

  * [The DIANA/HEP project](http://diana-hep.org/)

  * [The FIRST-HEP project](http://first-hep.org/)

  * [The Parallel Kalman Filter Tracking project](http://trackreco.github.io)

  * [SLATE: Services Layer at the Edge](http://slateci.io/)

  * [Pacific Research Platform (PRP)](http://pacificresearchplatform.org/)

  * [CHASE-CI](https://nsf.gov/awardsearch/showAward?AWD_ID=1730158)

  * [VC3](https://www.virtualclusters.org)

  * [GitHub (CoDaS-HEP platform portal software)](https://github.com/ssl-hep/mlfront)

### Scientific Advisory Committee

  * [Peter Elmer](http://www.princeton.edu/physics/people/display_person.xml?netid=gelmer&display=Research%20Staff) (Chair) - Princeton University, Department of Physics

  * [Kyle Cranmer](http://theoryandpractice.org) - New York University, Department of Physics & Center for Data Science

  * [Oliver Gutsche](http://home.fnal.gov/~gutsche) - Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory

  * [Sudhir Malik](http://charma.uprm.edu/~malik/) - University of Puerto Rico - Mayaguez

  * [Avi Yagil](http://physics.ucsd.edu/fac_staff/fac_profile/faculty_description.php?person_id=688) - University of California, San Diego, Department of Physics

  * [Peter Wittich](http://physics.cornell.edu/peter-wittich) - Cornell University, Department of Physics
