content/pages/index.md, before:

Title: Computational and Data Science Training for High Energy Physics
date: 2017-03-20 10:53
save_as: index.html
Authors: Peter Elmer
Summary: Computational and Data Science Training for High Energy Physics
Template: homepage

#### The third school on tools, techniques and methods for Computational and Data Science for High Energy Physics (CoDaS-HEP) will take place on 22-26 July, 2019, at Princeton University.

Advanced software is a critical ingredient to scientific research. Training young researchers in the latest tools and techniques is an essential part of developing the skills required for a successful career both in research and in industry.

The CoDaS-HEP school aims to provide a broad introduction to these critical skills as well as an overview of applications High Energy Physics. Specific topics to be covered at the school include:

  * Parallel Programming 
  * Big Data Tools and Techniques
  * Machine Learning - Technology and Methods
  * Practical skills: performance evaluation, use of git for version control

The program includes both lectures and practical hands-on exercises.

The school offers a limited number of young researchers an opportunity to learn these skills from experienced scientists and instructors. Successful applicants will receive lodging and some level of travel support to attend the school. Both Ph.D. students and postdoctoral researchers are encouraged to apply. Financial support for participants will be limited to those associated to U.S. academic institutions.

The CoDaS-HEP 2019 school will take place at the [Princeton Center for Theoretical Science (PCTS)](http://pcts.princeton.edu/pcts/index.html) in [Jadwin Hall](https://goo.gl/maps/x1tAczDvWFB2) on the Princeton University campus.

Questions can be sent to [codas-hep@googlegroups.com](codas-hep@googlegroups.com).

Commit message:

Update to past tense, make note to watch for CoDaS-HEP 2020 announcements.

content/pages/index.md, after:

Title: Computational and Data Science Training for High Energy Physics
date: 2017-03-20 10:53
save_as: index.html
Authors: Peter Elmer
Summary: Computational and Data Science Training for High Energy Physics
Template: homepage

#### The third school on tools, techniques and methods for Computational and Data Science for High Energy Physics (CoDaS-HEP) took place on 22-26 July, 2019, at Princeton University.

Advanced software is a critical ingredient to scientific research. Training young researchers in the latest tools and techniques is an essential part of developing the skills required for a successful career both in research and in industry.

The CoDaS-HEP school aims to provide a broad introduction to these critical skills as well as an overview of applications High Energy Physics. Specific topics to be covered at the school include:

  * Parallel Programming 
  * Big Data Tools and Techniques
  * Machine Learning - Technology and Methods
  * Practical skills: performance evaluation, use of git for version control

The program includes both lectures and practical hands-on exercises.

The school offers a limited number of young researchers an opportunity to learn these skills from experienced scientists and instructors. Successful applicants will receive lodging and some level of travel support to attend the school. Both Ph.D. students and postdoctoral researchers are encouraged to apply. Financial support for participants will be limited to those associated to U.S. academic institutions.

The CoDaS-HEP 2019 school took place at the [Princeton Center for Theoretical Science (PCTS)](http://pcts.princeton.edu/pcts/index.html) in [Jadwin Hall](https://goo.gl/maps/x1tAczDvWFB2) on the Princeton University campus.

** Please watch for announcements of the 4th edition of the school in early 2020. **

Questions can be sent to [codas-hep@googlegroups.com](codas-hep@googlegroups.com).
