content/pages/travel-princeton.md, before:

Title: Travel to Princeton (2018 Version)
date: 2017-05-16 07:51
slug: travel-princeton.html
Authors: Peter Elmer
Summary: Travel to Princeton and Local Princeton Information
Template: page

### General Notes

General information about traveling to and visiting Princeton University can be found on the ["visiting campus" webpages](http://www.princeton.edu/main/visiting/). 

Please send any questions about travel to Princeton to [codas-hep@googlegroups.com](codas-hep@googlegroups.com).


### Travel by Train

From Newark Liberty International (EWR) airport, John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) and from many other locations along the east coast (e.g. Boston, NYC, Washington DC and Baltimore), it is possible to travel to Princeton by train. 
Note that there are two train stations you will need to know:

  * The major train station closest to Princeton is ["Princeton Junction Station" (PJC)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Princeton_Junction_station). This is served by [New Jersey Transit](http://www.njtransit.com) on the ["Northeast Corridor Line"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Northeast_Corridor_Line). PJC also has some limited direct service by Amtrak.
  * The campus train station is ["Princeton Station"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Princeton_station_(NJ_Transit)). This is served only by a small commuter train (the "Dinky") which goes along a spur line from Princeton Junction Station to campus. It is operated by New Jersey Transit.

If you are coming from EWR, Trenton or NYC Penn Station, you should buy a New Jersey Transit ticket through to Princeton Station. You will then need to take a train to Princeton Junction train station (check that your particular train stops there!), get off at Princeton Junction train station and take the "Dinky" from Princeton Junction train station to Princeton train station.

If you are coming on Amtrak, most trains do not stop at Princeton Junction (with only a few exceptions, see the [Amtrak website](http://amtrak.com)). You will probably need to take Amtrak to Newark or Trenton and then switch to New Jersey Transit, as above, to arrive to Princeton Station on campus.

### Travel by Air

The closest and most convenient airport to come to Princeton is Newark Liberty International (EWR). Most participants will find that the best solution for domestic flights within the US. This is the recommended airport unless the cost is significantly higher than other alternatives. From there it is convenient to take the train as described above. 

Another option is flying into John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) or LaGuardia International Airport (LGA) at the cost of additional travel time. From JFK, the easiest is probably to the Airtrain to Jamaica Station and then take the [Long Island Rail Road (LIRR)](https://www.google.nl/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0ahUKEwjp7enVi8LUAhVJbVAKHQzpBukQFggmMAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.mta.info%2Flirr&usg=AFQjCNFkOvv1hHfiREn_00NkjelXSbfiYQ) or to New York Penn Station. Alternatively there is the [subway](http://www.nysubway.com/airport/jfk.html) or a bus ([NYC Airporter](https://www.nycairporter.com) with service from JFK to NYC Penn Station. From NYC Penn Station, you can take the train to Princeton as described above.

From [a small number of locations](http://www.mercercounty.org/departments/transportation-and-infrastructure/trenton-mercer-airport/airlines) it may also be possible to fly to [Trenton-Mercer Airport](http://www.mercercounty.org/departments/transportation-and-infrastructure/trenton-mercer-airport). Getting from there to the Princeton campus is more complicated and involves buses and/or going to the train station in Trenton and taking New Jersey Transit trains, as above.

In general long distance taxis will be costly and should be avoided. Uber and Lyft should be possible on and around the Princeton campus (incl. Princeton Junction train station) at a modest price.

## Local Princeton Information

### Bloomberg Hall

Participants will reside in Bloomberg Hall, an air conditioned dormitory on the Princeton University campus. It is a 5-10 minute walk from the Princeton train station and a 5 minute walk from Jadwin Hall, where the school lectures will take place. Keys are available for pick up at our office of Public Safety, 200 Elm Drive, open 24 hours, seven days a week. Participants will received a hotel style key in a packet with the room number at Public Safety. To enter the building, hold the key up to the black box on the building. To enter the room, hold the key in front of the key pad on your room door.

A linen packet is provided in the room and includes sheets, towels, a pillow and blanket. Bedrooms are private, though bathrooms are shared with one other person. Guests should plan to bring toiletries. There are free laundry machines available in the building. For extra linens, blankets, etc. or other questions or issues regarding the dorms, please feel free to reach out Monday - Friday, 8:30 - 4:30 to Michelle, Frank or Wilmary at 71 University Place, Princeton, NJ 08544-2088, (609) 258-6116, [horgan@princeton.edu](horgan@princeton.edu). Outside of those hours, Public Safety can help with lockouts, emergencies or other immediate issues. Information on how to set the temperature in the dorm room can be found in [this document](/downloads/T-stats-in-dorms-9-2017.docx).

Participants can park temporarily in West Garage (if on a weekend) to walk to Public Safety, 200 Elm Drive, and pick up their keys. (The side of the garage closest to Lot 20 will be closed on the weekend before the school for construction, but entry is available on the Lewis Arts Complex side to that garage.) See below for parking notes during the school itself.

### Emergency Contact

For emergencies, please dial Princeton University Public Safety (609) 258-1000 or dial 911 to reach the Public Safety dispatcher from a campus phone.

### Parking on campus

Parking is possible on the Princeton campus. As noted above, participants can park temporarily in West Garage (if on a weekend) to walk to Public Safety and pick up their keys. After moving in, we would ask that participants move cars to their assigned lot, the Lakeside Garage. Lot 21 is available for those just driving in for the day.

In general a car is not needed within Princeton itself, since all of the venues for the school (dorm, lecture venue, receptions, etc.) and relevant local businesses (see below) are within walking distance of one another once one has arrived on campus.

### WiFi on Campus

You should be able to connect to "eduroam" from most places on campus. There
is also a "PUVisitor" network which should be openly accesssible.

### On-Campus Food

There are many nearby locations where food is available with the closest being WAWA, located next to the Princeton Train Station and open 24 hours, and University Store, located 36 University Place, which features snacks, souvenirs, laundry detergent, toiletries and a pharmacy and open from 9 AM - 9 PM. Both are within five minutes walking distance from the dorm.

### Restaurants, Coffeeshops, Bars and Stores

There are a number of restaurants, coffeeshops, bars and stores along Nassau
St. or along the streets on the other side of Nassau St. from campus.

### General information

  * Campus Map: [pdf format](http://www.princeton.edu/main/visiting/aroundcampus/maps/princeton_map.pdf)
  * Campus Map (with CoDaS-HEP relevant locations indicated): [png format](/images/Princeton-University-Map-CoDaS-HEP-2018.png)
  * Princeton mobile phone apps: [iOS App](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/princeton-mobile/id388821195?mt=8), [Android App](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=edu.princeton.mobile&hl=en)
  * [Princeton Area Airports](https://www.princeton.edu/main/visiting/travel/airports/)

Commit message:

add note about gym passes

content/pages/travel-princeton.md, after:

Title: Travel to Princeton (2018 Version)
date: 2017-05-16 07:51
slug: travel-princeton.html
Authors: Peter Elmer
Summary: Travel to Princeton and Local Princeton Information
Template: page

### General Notes

General information about traveling to and visiting Princeton University can be found on the ["visiting campus" webpages](http://www.princeton.edu/main/visiting/). 

Please send any questions about travel to Princeton to [codas-hep@googlegroups.com](codas-hep@googlegroups.com).


### Travel by Train

From Newark Liberty International (EWR) airport, John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) and from many other locations along the east coast (e.g. Boston, NYC, Washington DC and Baltimore), it is possible to travel to Princeton by train. 
Note that there are two train stations you will need to know:

  * The major train station closest to Princeton is ["Princeton Junction Station" (PJC)](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Princeton_Junction_station). This is served by [New Jersey Transit](http://www.njtransit.com) on the ["Northeast Corridor Line"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Northeast_Corridor_Line). PJC also has some limited direct service by Amtrak.
  * The campus train station is ["Princeton Station"](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Princeton_station_(NJ_Transit)). This is served only by a small commuter train (the "Dinky") which goes along a spur line from Princeton Junction Station to campus. It is operated by New Jersey Transit.

If you are coming from EWR, Trenton or NYC Penn Station, you should buy a New Jersey Transit ticket through to Princeton Station. You will then need to take a train to Princeton Junction train station (check that your particular train stops there!), get off at Princeton Junction train station and take the "Dinky" from Princeton Junction train station to Princeton train station.

If you are coming on Amtrak, most trains do not stop at Princeton Junction (with only a few exceptions, see the [Amtrak website](http://amtrak.com)). You will probably need to take Amtrak to Newark or Trenton and then switch to New Jersey Transit, as above, to arrive to Princeton Station on campus.

### Travel by Air

The closest and most convenient airport to come to Princeton is Newark Liberty International (EWR). Most participants will find that the best solution for domestic flights within the US. This is the recommended airport unless the cost is significantly higher than other alternatives. From there it is convenient to take the train as described above. 

Another option is flying into John F. Kennedy International Airport (JFK) or LaGuardia International Airport (LGA) at the cost of additional travel time. From JFK, the easiest is probably to the Airtrain to Jamaica Station and then take the [Long Island Rail Road (LIRR)](https://www.google.nl/url?sa=t&rct=j&q=&esrc=s&source=web&cd=1&cad=rja&uact=8&ved=0ahUKEwjp7enVi8LUAhVJbVAKHQzpBukQFggmMAA&url=http%3A%2F%2Fwww.mta.info%2Flirr&usg=AFQjCNFkOvv1hHfiREn_00NkjelXSbfiYQ) or to New York Penn Station. Alternatively there is the [subway](http://www.nysubway.com/airport/jfk.html) or a bus ([NYC Airporter](https://www.nycairporter.com) with service from JFK to NYC Penn Station. From NYC Penn Station, you can take the train to Princeton as described above.

From [a small number of locations](http://www.mercercounty.org/departments/transportation-and-infrastructure/trenton-mercer-airport/airlines) it may also be possible to fly to [Trenton-Mercer Airport](http://www.mercercounty.org/departments/transportation-and-infrastructure/trenton-mercer-airport). Getting from there to the Princeton campus is more complicated and involves buses and/or going to the train station in Trenton and taking New Jersey Transit trains, as above.

In general long distance taxis will be costly and should be avoided. Uber and Lyft should be possible on and around the Princeton campus (incl. Princeton Junction train station) at a modest price.

## Local Princeton Information

### Bloomberg Hall

Participants will reside in Bloomberg Hall, an air conditioned dormitory on the Princeton University campus. It is a 5-10 minute walk from the Princeton train station and a 5 minute walk from Jadwin Hall, where the school lectures will take place. Keys are available for pick up at our office of Public Safety, 200 Elm Drive, open 24 hours, seven days a week. Participants will received a hotel style key in a packet with the room number at Public Safety. To enter the building, hold the key up to the black box on the building. To enter the room, hold the key in front of the key pad on your room door.

A linen packet is provided in the room and includes sheets, towels, a pillow and blanket. Bedrooms are private, though bathrooms are shared with one other person. Guests should plan to bring toiletries. There are free laundry machines available in the building. For extra linens, blankets, etc. or other questions or issues regarding the dorms, please feel free to reach out Monday - Friday, 8:30 - 4:30 to Michelle, Frank or Wilmary at 71 University Place, Princeton, NJ 08544-2088, (609) 258-6116, [horgan@princeton.edu](horgan@princeton.edu). Outside of those hours, Public Safety can help with lockouts, emergencies or other immediate issues. Information on how to set the temperature in the dorm room can be found in [this document](/downloads/T-stats-in-dorms-9-2017.docx).

Participants can park temporarily in West Garage (if on a weekend) to walk to Public Safety, 200 Elm Drive, and pick up their keys. (The side of the garage closest to Lot 20 will be closed on the weekend before the school for construction, but entry is available on the Lewis Arts Complex side to that garage.) See below for parking notes during the school itself.

### Emergency Contact

For emergencies, please dial Princeton University Public Safety (609) 258-1000 or dial 911 to reach the Public Safety dispatcher from a campus phone.

### Parking on campus

Parking is possible on the Princeton campus. As noted above, participants can park temporarily in West Garage (if on a weekend) to walk to Public Safety and pick up their keys. After moving in, we would ask that participants move cars to their assigned lot, the Lakeside Garage. Lot 21 is available for those just driving in for the day.

In general a car is not needed within Princeton itself, since all of the venues for the school (dorm, lecture venue, receptions, etc.) and relevant local businesses (see below) are within walking distance of one another once one has arrived on campus.

### WiFi on Campus

You should be able to connect to "eduroam" from most places on campus. There
is also a "PUVisitor" network which should be openly accesssible.

### On-Campus Food

There are many nearby locations where food is available with the closest being WAWA, located next to the Princeton Train Station and open 24 hours, and University Store, located 36 University Place, which features snacks, souvenirs, laundry detergent, toiletries and a pharmacy and open from 9 AM - 9 PM. Both are within five minutes walking distance from the dorm.

### Access to Campus Gym Facilities

Access by visitors to campus gym facilities is possible. Gym passes are
available for $5 each (at the participant's own expense) at the office
of the Princeton Conference and Event Services at 71 University Place. The
office is open from 8:00am through 4:30pm, Monday through Friday.

### Restaurants, Coffeeshops, Bars and Stores

There are a number of restaurants, coffeeshops, bars and stores along Nassau
St. or along the streets on the other side of Nassau St. from campus.

### General information

  * Campus Map: [pdf format](http://www.princeton.edu/main/visiting/aroundcampus/maps/princeton_map.pdf)
  * Campus Map (with CoDaS-HEP relevant locations indicated): [png format](/images/Princeton-University-Map-CoDaS-HEP-2018.png)
  * Princeton mobile phone apps: [iOS App](https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/princeton-mobile/id388821195?mt=8), [Android App](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=edu.princeton.mobile&hl=en)
  * [Princeton Area Airports](https://www.princeton.edu/main/visiting/travel/airports/)
